The figure of merit for lensing is the shear sensitivity.  For no noise, this
is simply the standard deviation of source galaxy ellipticity (or "shape
noise") over root N, divided by 2 to convert ellipticity to shear.  In the real
world there is noise, and this must be taken into account.  Hu and Jain put
this effect into a larger assumed shape noise.  Also, small objects (relative
to the PSF) contribute less signal, and this is just as important as the noise.

I used Huan's CFH12k data to estimate the shear sensitivity for the magnitude
limits 24.1 and 23.7, and a range of seeing.  I ran his images through my shape
measurement code, which calculates the shapes and their noise, as well as their
size.  Given these data, I can calculate the shear sensitity.  Most peoples
fischer matrix code actually takes in the shape noise and the number density,
so I converted the shear sensitivity to an effective number density assuming
the shape noise is 0.32.  Then the S/N just goes as sqrt(effective area).

I attached two plots.  The first is the lensing weight as a function of
magnitude (IAB), which drops rapidly after IAB = 22.5.  The second shows the
shear sensitity vs. seeing, and the effective number density vs. seeing, for
each of the mag limits 23.7 and 24.1 and a survey of 5000 square degrees.

(Note this is a slight over-estimate of the sensitivity for 23.7 because this
is a pretty deep image so the noise is a bit underestimated.)

As you can see, the effective number density drops rapidly with seeing.
This is also summarized in the table below.

I took a very crude look at how we would do with the equation of state:

Hu and Jain calculated their stuff for a density of 70 per square arcmin for
4000 square degrees.  They also assumed a large shape noise of 0.6 in order to
account for measurement error.  So we would do a little better than half (0.63)
as well in shear sensitivity compared to their estimates.  On the other hand,
they also assumed a mean source redshift of 1.5, whereas we will have more like
0.7 as I recall.  This means the signal will be smaller for our survey by
roughly a factor of 2.  So the signal to noise will be something like a third
as high as their estimates.  They showed that you could expect something like
0.05 in w for their survey under the best possible conditions. So we are
looking at .15 in w for 1" seeing.  This would drop to something like 0.095 or
so for 0.7" seeing.

This is not exactly right because the lever arm in z is smaller for our survey,
and thus the constraints will be weaker since there is less time over which to
see the effect of lambda on the angular diameter distances.  In other words, we
should do the full calculation to get it right, but you get the general
picture.

Note also that the weights vs. mag. I showed above must also be applied
to any estimate of the effective source redshift distribution.

Please send comments,
Erin

   seeing   eff. dens. (IAB<23.7) eff. dens. (IAB<24.1)
------------------------------------------------------------
     0.626848      16.2275      19.1452
     0.650000      16.2104      19.2437
     0.675000      15.4292      18.3983
     0.700000      14.6036      17.6217
     0.725000      14.1128      16.8124
     0.750000      13.2605      16.1358
     0.775000      12.3054      14.7850
     0.800000      11.4749      13.6171
     0.825000      10.5775      12.3089
     0.850000      9.68937      11.4201
     0.875000      8.92216      10.3843
     0.900000      8.17064      9.32752
     0.925000      7.34295      8.42227
     0.950000      6.80204      7.74125
     0.975000      6.15731      6.98553
      1.00000      5.65126      6.34197
      1.02500      5.20559      5.74477
      1.05000      4.75548      5.34876
      1.07500      4.36448      4.78627
      1.10000      3.86226      4.34413
      1.12500      3.51972      3.89281
      1.15000      3.26479      3.64868
      1.17500      2.97923      3.17383
      1.20000      2.61324      2.92787


--
 Erin Sheldon           esheldon@cfcp.uchicago.edu
 University of Chicago      Office: (773) 702-7851
 http://sdss4.physics.lsa.umich.edu:8080/~esheldon
