\documentclass[12pt,preprint]{aastex}

\usepackage{verbatim}
\usepackage{color}
\usepackage[normalem]{ulem} % for striking out with \sout
\input{newcommands.tex}

\def\eps@scaling{1.0}% 

\newcommand{\Tsn}{$(S/N)_{size}$}
\newcommand{\fsn}{$(S/N)_{flux}$}

\slugcomment{Last revision \today}
\shortauthors{Sheldon}
\shorttitle{Bayesian Shear Estimation}

\begin{document}

\title{On Bayesian Shear Estimation}

\input{authors.tex}

\begin{abstract}

blah

\end{abstract}

\section{Introduction} \label{sec:intro}

intro

\section{Algorithm} \label{sec:algo}

The full algorithm is presented in \citet[][BA13]{ba13}.  There are a few basic
assumptions underlying this approach:

\begin{itemize}

    \item In the limit of weak shear, only the ensemble mean shear can be
        derived from galaxy shapes.

    \item The posterior distribution of the shear derived from a large ensemble
        of galaxy images is Gaussian.

    \item The shear is small, $\gamma \ll 1$.

\end{itemize}

The first assumption is true because galaxy images are to be used to estimate
the shear: galaxies have intrinsic shapes, with variance larger than the
typical shear induced by structures in our universe. Given this limitation, the
estimation of shears from individual sources is abandoned.  This limitation
would not apply if a large set of intrinsically round, extended sources were
found.

The second point follows from the first, and the central limit theorem: if the
shear is derived from a large enough ensemble of galaxy shapes, the posterior
necessarily approaches a Gaussian.

The third assumption is true under most circumstances, but will break down
along lines-of-sight near large over-densities, such as clusters of galaxies.

Under these assumptions, a second-order estimator was derived for the shear,
consistent with the assumption of a Gaussian posterior.  This form is a Taylor
expansion of the logarithm of the posterior for the shear.  The full equations
are given in \citet{ba13}.

Prior information is key to this approach: to derive the shear estimator, the
un-lensed distribution of shapes is mathematically sheared, and must thus be
known accurately.  The use of strong priors on all parameters also suppresses
noise-related effects, such as the shear ``noise bias''.  The basic statistics
derived from each galaxy are integrals of derivatives of the prior over the
full likelihood.  The final shear statistic is itself an aggregate over the
marginalized derivatives.

An approach to measuring non-constant shear is also given, as are third-order
tweaks to the second-order perturbations, but implementations of those ideas
are left to future work.

A full implementation, fitting to pixelized galaxy images, was not attempted in
\citet{ba13}.  The basic formalism was shown to work by generating shapes from
an analytic distribution, adding noise and shear, and recovering the underlying
shear using the second-order formula.

\section{Implementation} \label{sec:impl}

For this work an implementation of the \citet{ba13} formalism was developed to
fit models to galaxy images, accounting for the point spread function and
pixelization.

Two types of models were fitted: An elliptical exponential disk model exp$(-r)$,
and an elliptical \devauc\ profile exp$( -r^{1/4} )$.

The estimator involves integrals over the full likelihood distribution for each
galaxy.  Exploration of the likelihood surface requires a large number of model
evaluations.  As an optimization, galaxy and PSF models were approximated as
sums of Gaussians according the to the fits in \citet{HoggGMix12}.  This use of
Gaussians for both galaxy and PSF models facilitates analytic convolutions of
the galaxy model with the PSF.  This is a faster and simpler alternative to
convolutions based on the generation of high resolution images that are
convolved using Fourier transform methods. While only approximate
representations, the Gaussian representations are sufficiently accurate to meet
our requirements.  A fast exponential function was
used\footnote{https://github.com/herumi/fmath.  The code was translated from
    C++ to C by the author.}, and even so evaluation of the exponential
    function is the bottleneck for this calculation.


\section{Simulation} \label{sec:sim}

sim

\section{Results} \label{sec:results}

\begin{figure}[p] \centering
 \centering 
 \includegraphics[scale=0.45]{figures/cbafit-geg-T-s2n.eps}
 \includegraphics[scale=0.45]{figures/cbafit-geg-flux-s2n.eps}

 \caption{ Fractional bias in the recovered shear for the estimator presented
     in \cite{ba13}.  The bias is plotted as a
     function of galaxy signal-to-noise ratio (S/N), for various galaxy
     properties and two different measures of S/N.  In panel (a) is
     plotted \Tsn, where the measure of size is $T=I_{xx} + I_{yy}$.  In 
     panel (b) is plotted \fsn.  The flux and $T$ are parameters in the model
     fits, and the associated (S/N) is the ratio of best-fit value to error in
     the fit.  In each panel the fractional error is plotted for galaxies of
     different size and type, as described in the text.  As shown panel (a)
     panel, the bias depends uniquely on \Tsn\ for different galaxy types and
     sizes.  However, \fsn\ is not a sufficient descriminator for different
     galaxy types and sizes.  The \Tsn\ can be used to remove galaxies from the
     sample that will yield poor shear estimates, independent of galaxy
     properties, but not so \fsn.  For \Tsn$~ > 10$ this shear estimator meets
 the accuracy requirements for the Dark Energy Survey, shown as the gray band.
 \label{fig:fracerr}}

\end{figure}

\begin{figure}[t] \centering
 \centering 
 \includegraphics[scale=0.6]{figures/fracerr-vs-shear.eps}

 \caption{Fractional bias in the recovered shear as a function of true shear,
     in a zero noise simulation.  The solid curve is the best-fit quadratic
     function of the true shear.  The quadratic bias as a function of true
     shear indicates a break down of the second-order approximation presented
     in \cite{ba13}. The gray band represents the requirements for the Dark
 Energy Survey. \label{fig:nonoise}}

\end{figure}

\section{Summary} \label{sec:summary}

summary

\section*{Acknowledgments}

ES is supported by DOE grant DE-AC02-98CH10886.

Thanks to Gary Bernstein, Bob Armstrong, and Anze Slosar for many useful
discussions.

\bibliographystyle{apj}
% Bib database
\bibliography{apj-jour,astroref}

\end{document}

